15th sept
Understanding an idea is being able to apply it properly
What is an idea? An idea is defined by the elements of reality that constitute it/ ideas are defined by certain attributes
If we want to re-engineer a process, why do we want to do it? Multiple objectives for multiple stakeholders drive the engineering
So why have we not been able to re-engineer this? 
Process re engineering is about taking the process, looking at what essentially has to be done and what can be done better faster cheaper
A process thats designed to yield efficiency may not yield productivity
Abt the reading: reengineering work
Why does he say dont automate, obliterate? No use making a redundant process more productive, why is it redundant? It was good for that time but bec society's infrastructure has changed and the way we do stuff has changed so the process is no longer valid for this time, altho the process is fine, nothing wrong with the process but time has changed. So if u increment it…..
How do you know a process is redundant? 

Make a flowchart of the enrollment process, what did i do, what did ums do, po, all the other elements and then we want to review it on first hour on wed and second hour we will redesign it. Head of dept decide courses and submit that, list of courses, credit hours came from the program office. Go in the smallest steps as possible to capture all activity, then we will divide it into departments like ums po room ppl. In some cases they have actions, in some they provide information.

17 sept
Every process is no more than rules applied on data
DATA
Learn to see processes as data
To execute each step, certain pieces of data required, otherwise u cant move to the next step, so data approves moving to the next step
Every process is the summation of rules applied to data
Data driven process engineering is basically that we take data and engineer data, like we utilise all the available data and see what is necessary for a certain step and then re-engineer the process accordingly. Eg for enrolment we use the data (cs core + alr taken courses + fee structure idky + erp) and then show courses only a student can enrol in not the ones they are alr done with, this could be a way to re-engineer ums enrolment
Look at the process through just the data and u are just travelling through the data (this is the method used to do business process re-engineering).
Rules are the functions we are trying to optimize
Process engineering starts with what is the problem i am trying to solve 

22 sept
22 sept (following)
Hes explaining wider context of process and wrote macro and micro on board
Macro is country level, macroeconomic policy deals w distribution of wealth
Micro is firm level, microeconomics deals w generation of wealth
Whats difference bw dist and gen of wealth? 
What is the meaning of gen of wealth? What is the value iba provides? Value is generated by individuals or companies, teachers have skill cus they generate skill, iba has value because it gathers teachers and students and a setting
value is providing a service or commodity that society needs or wants or is in a benefit of
What is the value ismail industries provides? They provide us snacks
When we pay for milk, its taste is same every time so we dont pay for milk, we pay for consistent value
Not every good and service we pay for should be allowed, j bec u pay for it and ppl are willing to provide it (weed).
Which is a stronger economy, a ec purely built on financial sector(this can be artificially inflated) or production/manufacturing sector? Production sector
What is the value served by the financial sector? So he says will u eat and drink shares in the stock market? Are u going to eat and drink credit card? No it j gives us access to money, so in the fin sector in itself there is no value, but if theres no value in the financial sector, but we use it to get access to money by which we buy and sell things. The real value generated is by companies who manufacture. When u buy and sell financial instruments, we do on that basis of value ppl place upon it. 
Going thru 2008, financial instrument was debt, thye collateralized the debt, they sold the debt. He said stuff, then he said that was crash in financial sector not economy
Fiscal deficit
In an economic sense if u dont have no micro economics, ure dead. U have money cus they make it
So the balance bw macro and micro is, micro generate wealth, they pay taxes and taxes are used to distribute the wealth and part of the taxes is used to make firms that generate money.
Micro: reduce cost, increase efficiency, increase productivity, new growth
Where do firms borrow from? Banks. Whos money do banks give to firms? Ours ……..(more qs that lead to us somehow to do w taxes, so banks generate wealth wo money)
This was eco lesson now back
How do companies consistently generate value? What is the one word by which they consistently generate value? PROCESS. Process is what generates value, do this then that then that and end u get this output. 
If processes generate value then we want the most optimal process. So much effort lost in enrollment process, one week of learning is lost and waste of time, so if we make that process better we make life easy for students and po ppl. 
Process is abt making sure we do same thing in same way in a consistent way. Eg. in nadra put name where it needs to go, and thumb print where it needs to go.
Theres smth called Merit function. Fi. Idea is to optimize a process such that certain things occur. Suppose cnot is cost, enot is efficiency, pnot is productivity, i want my c1=0.9cnot, e1=enot+-0.01enot, p1=pnot. So set up a function, p=summation from i=1 to n over s sub i. Such that e(p)=enot, c(p)=cnot, p(p)=pnot. TOOK PICTURE
Fi old=enot+cnot+pnot, Fi new=enot+-o.o1enot+o.9cnot+pnot.
For the value of the aggregate to be lower is better for the business. 
Inconsistent dimensions like choosing for a suitor and factors such as education, looks, money. Some combination is possible and some is not
So now by the function we have a way of assessing a process
We want bare minimum of aggregate, not minimum
U need to find something here (in the formule)  that does produce the cost reduction. The final number is better if its lower but it can be lower even if efficiency is low, but efficiency is different from cost reduction. If u can get someone to produce more then efficiency is increased. So in some processes u can only do cost reduction but in some u can also increase efficiency (he said something along this lines)
Process re-engingerring me one or more fo the items in the formula should improve, its j an indication of how better the new process is from the previous reason
New prodcutivy =  Old productivity / (old + improvement) (might be a bit wrong mathmeatically he said)
So according to this the productivity if it increases then — idk 
Bpr is basically relative, because there are diff ways of measuring processes, according to cost , efficiency etc 
Process reengineering ultimately must provide some improvement, sometimes pr is abt customer satisfaction
How do we reeingner process, we need to look at one or 2 of these factors (i think he means cost, eff and prod)
So u gotta get rid of osme of the processes and find new ways of achieving of the same value but cost reduction etc.
We discussed in last class any process u design was the right process of the time but time moves on and ppl move on adn tehc moves on and u have to redo all the things
Now hes going over dont automate, obliterate reading, ford, accounts payable, mismatches, department, online database
He said he wants us to, do pg 106 of reading, look at flow diagrama nd define thedata being transmitted, so draw it on our book and define data being transmitted up to point of account payable, when was datas matching, when. Then do same thing for reengineered process. Then tell what the tech did to change the process and what did they do in itself to change the process.

24 sept
He told us search starbucks process flowchart
These things matter in a flow sense bec no one should ask what to do next, it should be vvvv clear where to go next, using color schemes etc.
If the obj is to push thru as many customers as possible then u wanna make sure wtv he does he knows what to get
Think carefully why would u want to have this document? Customer experience
What we want to do is redo this process and minimise the amount of time the customer waits, so take the process, look maham at the steps and see what can we do to minimise the amount of time the customer waits
add a qr code where we see menu and we are able to place order there too, and theres different stations for order and payment and use a digital screen to show order status and pickup counter. Use ordering screens.
Other ppl suggestions: have more cashiers, 
He saying notice u guys used technology to solve the problem
Hes going thru the entire process and seeing ho to speed up, so in the part where the customer has paid nd is asked for name and is told to go wait at pickup counter. How to fix this wo technology? In the 2nd row we see the order is starting to get ready later than its ordered, so thats time wasted. 
Starting the coffee making as soon as its ordered, it that possible? Can we do this have 1 cashier take order go prepare then another cashier take order prepare and so on, what this does is increase cost when u reengineer a process, u ended to make sure u dont mess up smth els eu havent thot of.
Merit function was minimise wait times
What other merit function? Min time inside starbucks. Typically working ppl dont have time, they take coffee and leave. How can we do that wo technology? We can keep separate counters for dine in and takeaway
Now if we put technology in it and assume we have timestamp of activities for each thing in flowchart. 
He said write this down: he made a table maham took picture and sent on group
2 merit functions: time waiting and time a customer spends inside starbucks
He told us to make to be sheet
And said make 2 tables, one for 1 counter only and another w 2 counters for dine in and takeaway
So this is data driven process reengineering, kya karahe, kab kiya, ismese kya nikalna hai
Process: series of well defined steps that lead to an order
A good process has time stamps
How do my processes function w a range of order? 
Why do we have loyalty cards? They know our spending habits
What is our biggest variable in all this? The customer
The concept of a wallet using its ease, they get the money before u even do anything
So technology now opens up avenues that r really mindblowing
Is it possible to go inside and get my coffee right away and leave. Assume order placed, barista receives it, when do they start making it? Jab mujhe chaiye us hisab se, but how can they determine this? Geolocation? What app will they use? Google maps. To determine how long u will be there. But they dont need that cus they know ur route, so now we know in how much time the customer will be there and we know how long it takes to make this order. Freaky cus the app works in their favour so they can make it exactly when we get there
He wants us to: redo this chart w the app as part of this. Print it, and then on it, take a diff coloured pen and redo it w digital customer and put in where the digital calculations go, before barista starts making time of del made to customer, cal made abt how long it takes to order, start preparing order in t-x. What will happen to the cost? Cap ex increased, op x . how are we going to return this money 
Is it true that have an app we get more customers? Bpr we do for 3+1 things the +1 is growth. We need enough customers to get enough to cover cost and have growth. Technology enables us to get anyone who has a phone. 

29 sept 25
We will learn how to document
Next class we have presentation
This is a flowchart and theres data, data consists of action, who des it, what time he or she ds it
So think of timestamps, entering, standing, placing order, make payment, enjoy, leave
Can we give coffee timestamps like a human, yes, so prepare beverage, coffee made, coffee presented to customer
So when does powder reach and when does it go out of premises
So need to optimise this, how long did the powder stay
Think of inventory, how long do u want the inventory to be in ur premises, ideally 0, why do u want that, cus u get money when it goes out and ur money is not sitting on inventory
Redo the process in the chart, and discuss how and why the reengineered process is better
G1: minimise waiting time, 2:minimise time spent in the cafe, 3: minimise no of personnel, 4: minimise the waiting time w minimised tech, 5: ?, 6: minimise hr w minimal cost and tech
Reflect the flowchart in an excel sheet, almost produce a simulation, excel sheet cells should have time
Take that spreadsheet and run it, then extract understanding from it
Fluxicon disco process mining
Fintech and industry
Key thing that delivers goods and services assets and machinery is process. We try to make processes cost effective, increase productivity
What processes do banks want? Transactions on …. What is teh actual value they generate? Convenience in what? Transfer ib funds movement, what value r they delivering? Paise honge you bank honge. In intself is it using raw materials, or producing smth u can use its noth but a service provider. 
Which society is better? One that has emphasis on real industry or banking?
Banks get money from us, so its alr available in society so they j channel it. 

19 nov
In process engineering we essentially try to unlearn, thats what they mean by obliterate, not automate.
Good example of unlearning would be to unlearn how we study in college when we come to uni
Theres deeper things about unlearning.
Is success abiding by the laws society has set
If u r good at what u do and trustworthy then money may not follow u, but success will
Its vvv diff for humans to unlearn and to do business process reengineering. The prob of bpr is 
How much unlearning had to be done to go from a small old phone to touchscreen phones. Complications like theres screen but we want keyboard along w screen. Keyboard became software. Means we had to have a phone with cpu that runs it. 
Think abt unlearning the phone change.
Thinking is a habit, by default. So everytime u engage in a conversation, how much of that is related by what society is saying and how much is what u think. How much original thinking in ur conversation. So in order to unlearn, u need to do the new thing in a persistent way. Practice deconstructing a process and reconstructing it in a different way.
Reengineer teaching
Constant: student/ teacher. Exchange of ideas.
Define a new process
Chatgpt destroys our thinking process cus when we use google we use our brain and think and compare different stuff we find but chatgpt gives us exactly what we want so we skip the metawork involved
U understand the root concept ideas and u r able to apply them to new realities acc to ur understanding
If u understand a concept well u will practise it better than the person who taught u, u should be able to
What do i need to teach u so that i never need to teach u? Teach us to thinking independently and correctly
To get the constant of the boading pass out how do we do it? Purpose of boarding pass is to get access into plane so figure out another way to verify and be able to etner plane
How do we solve the baggage issue? Have no limit of weight? NAH. there has to be some limit, how do we establish everyone is taking their rightful allowance. We need to weigh.whats the constant here? The weight or the bag? The baggage has got to go with u in plane. U remove the task, and instead of agent doing it, let the custoemr do it. Uve shifted the repsonsibiltiy from agent to passenger
A potential constant(?) would be not putting repsoonsbiltiy on a passenger beyond their capacity. 
The solution is get the passenger to do it, outsource it but its free outsourcing. What the benefit of this is the agent is free for more time so now he can do more flights. So now uve got increased productivity, the agent is going thru more flights, at the cost of weighing plates and electronic printer. Now u see what i means to unlearn, u get whats the need of this. 
The constant would be everything required to make coffee. Then subject of purchaser and server, the premises. So we got 4 constant, now construct  dffernet wya of delivering coffee. Does an order have to be physical? No, online. What are benefits of online? 
If we get it online, we get another constant. 
Best reeningering is where u remove the constants 
Go into chatgpt
An overview over the impact little things have
What si the element of unlearing in this video
Video sid we confuse abundance is choice, convenience is joy.
Are we in touch w our feelings?
Sirs takeaway: what u do isnt for money or for urself, its transforming other ppls lifes for the better and then u r happy
 define nature of reeinginerg
what processes were reenginered
what objective functions were optimized
A process is a tangible well defined step that results in a consistent??

24th nov
Bpr roi has to be calculated, starting point isnt money, its what do u want to optimize and thats the list of things he has, then u say mere process ka iss se kya taluq hai. Like in starbucks thing whe customers are happy u get more customers,, but happy customers dont mean more customer. So ques comes how do u do roi calculation where business decisions arent financially constrained. 
Customer satisfaction should translate into less loss, less churn
What careem did is they initially paid drivers a lotttt, they were bringing drivers on board. They had to make sure they have enough drivers onboarded hat when anyone looked for a ride they immediately found it, this gave them heavy loss. 
Now u understand that roi calculator isnt a purely money baased thing, it starts off w merit function.
Agent salary 4xm (4x per month) 
What would be operating cost of kiosk? Print, maintenance, support
So OPx is per month so therefore this becomes 
swimlanes capture cost
Before was agent and customer only, now its agent customer and kiosk
What is the cost of the agent? Their wages, lets say xm (per month)
Suppose no of flights they were is nf, no ons customers per flights is cf, this is per day, multiply by 30 to make it a monthly thing, 
Cost of employees is not j wages but add ons like insurance etc. 
Assumption was 4 agent
Na (no of agents)
Opex is monthly running cost
In any company capex any mistake can be afforded but not in opex, its eating into ur profits, so therefore w the kiosk out cost is (na x ctc) / (30 nf . cf)
New cost: (na x ctc) / (30 nf . cf) . ½ + oppex + cappex .r  <= (na x ctc) / (30 nf . cf)
The more fundamentally u redesign ur process, the more u have to think abt economics and political …
Textile companies, they need to make enough in booms cus they loose a lot in loss. 
Risk analysis/ assessment has to be rly strong

26 nov 2025
Cost of bpr <= current cost
Outsource digital tech or inhouse
Consult digital experts
SLA(service level agreement) becomes challenging 
Sla says idc what happens w ur machines, there should be no transfer of customers going frm kiosk to agent
Hats the argument for having in house digital tech? 
Outsourcing vs in ouse
Whats the mot fundamental business principle/ perspective weve lost in this? 
Tech augments ur work
This org must use tech to augment its work, augment means help make tasks easy
So at what point does the need to be able to augment tehc result in the need for u to adopt digital tech as part of ur core
Auggie guy from hbl said we are an IT company w a banking license so dig tech becomes there domain and using that they provide ….
Every company needs to decide how much dig tech they are going to adopt internally
ALL THIS HE SAID WILL COME IN EXAM
If we are setting up a whole group for dig tech, are we j gonna do it for one usecase, no we will multipurpose. So what are we going to do? 
Ppl at company originate work and make employees do it, why didnt they do it themselves, they didnt have time. 
He did some costy and percent things and said then we should j create a DT dept and give them a CDO, then they will use dig tech to do bpr in the entire company
Yk there are some processes if u reenigneer u save money, but in order to do that u need to hire more ppl
CDO is responsible for efficiency, cost reduction and productivity increase
Who runs processes in a company? CEO
So organizationally who is responsible for delivering the processes
Think a way of transforming all ur processes digitally
Efficeinies and unefficeinces kahan hain? And productivity and unproductivity kahan hai? How do we locate them
A company is the sum of all its processes, so therefore wtv we do is gonna be w these processes cus these are what we will reengineer
Each dept w develop an inventory of their processes. How much cost reduction can u produce in this? But j bec u can produce a cost reduction does that mean u can and should do it? This means har ek process ko augment krne ke liye there ill be a complexity.
Cost vs time
If cost is high and time is low then u do it but if time is v long and cost is v low then why bother
When u do this ull get a matrix , complexity and cost
High cost low complexity u dont touch it (maybe he sid that)
 By cost he means cost incurred in doing that reeningering
If cost related is high and complexity is high its hmmm
If cost is low, complexity is high, maybe
Cost low comp low, yes
Cost high, complexity low, u dont do it
SATURDAY QUIZ
Clayton christian, theory of destructive innovation
A guys argument is we re all benefitting from touch screen, who did initial research for touch screen, dept of defence? It was commercialised 20 years later
The value derived by an investment, how u measure it, is v imp
If we measure initiatives on finance, how does innovation come out?
When u establish this group (the DT dept), what mandate do u ive them? Complete digital retransformation of company
If u instead say give this many efficiencies they wil get stuck in matrix
How many process d u reengineer so that u actually produce transformation change
Summarise this
He said this all will come in EXXXXAM

29 nov 2025
Will do six sigma and anomaly detection
Process measurement we will do
A process is a set of well defined tangible measurable steps
If u dont measure it,e ven if its tangible whats the point
An action is measurable.
An idea is from the sensed reality, the mefhoom akhaz kiya
He talked abt nadra ssytem, what annoys us most? Queues and ppl working there but ppl are fine now hes saying.
Merit function will be?? 
So qqueue length, wait time, customer satisfaction(csat), these are measurable and objective
Csat is measurable bu the criteria by which we get it is v subjective
In exam: heterogenous. this is time(queue time) and a number and this is a number abt our feeling (csat)
The number abt feeling helps u assess is body of opinion me kya horaha hai (he said ithis in divorce example)
s1-> s2-> s3->
I measure an estimate s1 acc to a measure m1, same for 2,3 4 5 …, and output function is = summation(w1m1+w2m2+w3m3+w4m4)
The weights are ur attempts at assessing the importance of that step for the entire process
Im putting a quanittitive measure on a process, because i defined step 1 2 3 4, then i want to attach an important of that. So i have merit function = summation(w1m1+w2m2+w3m3+w4m4)
Is it possible that we assign 1 weight to one w, and 100 to another w. 
Suppose i have 1000 events that go thru the process s1-> s2-> s3->, what happens statistically? Like a 1000 ppl go to the hospital, what can we find from this statisticallys, i will have 1000 m1’s and so on
He made histogram of all m1s then all m2s, hes asking whats the difference between them? What are they telling us abt the process. What does variance tell u abt the process? Which one from what he drew has most variance? What makes it look like it does? The standard deviation(sigma)
Variance tells in the process execution how much variability there is, we want low variance, giving us consistent outcome, so how should that look on the graph? A straight line he drew. Now hes saying in each of teh graphs this is the variance, how much graph varies from straight line
He drew a straight horizontal line form the straight vertical line to the graph and saying lets define this as the standard deviation
Ur complete variation from the process should be six sigma ols?
99 % of events <= 6sigma
99%*6<= sigma
The variation should be so small that summing u 99 percent of it should still be less than 6 sigma
Process ko tight kardiya ke ek bhi evnet nhi hgoa jo nhi chale ga
Merit function is an indication of the process
So process control becomes almost 100%
Lets initiate the process. S1: order tea, s2: make receipt, s3: pay, s4: service counter, s5: got cup, s6: put tea, whitener,sugar, s7: warm water, s8: mix .. with water, s9: provide teaspoon, s10: .. gives tea
S3 can gie delay if bottleneck, s5 problem if no cup. Make it s6(1) =tea, s6(2) =whitener, s6(3) =sugar
Fishbone diagram
In any process measurement we look at these things: measurements, materials, people, environment, machines, processes, problems
Our prbl definition is, its taking too long to deliver tea
So look at the process and which factors from fishbone diagram can affect the time taken
Take the delay in the process or any problems, so make the diagram on paper or wtv then charge what fits where, so in making chai what sits where.
Fishbone chart is generic, any process can be broken down into this, teaching, cooking, any form of manufacturing
S1 measurable quantity is m1, m2, m3, m4, m5, m6, m7 m8 m9 m10, each ahs a tangible measurable step so for each i ca make a histogram, so (from i=1 to 10)sum (mi). We can mak grah and see which is out of sync cus theyre all measurable, then we can take corrective action. 
Can we make a real time, 6 sigma violation app? So we can predict that abhi se this tea will be served outside .. 
So what technologies are we gonna put in it to measure it
How can u do a six sigma prediction here (in the tesla car making video he is showing) (how the tesla model s is made) he wants us to define a six sigma measurement to the point that the parts are delivered here (timestamp 1:19), so how do we measure that the parts are delivered as quickly as possible
Capture step 1 2…. And see at what point we can do measurements. 
In the last part whats a problem, where all stock is sitting, its stock sitting doing nothing
In the procoes u capture the error using data
What is teh merit function being optimized bw the prev video of tesla and new video
Cost of the manufacturing and robots maintenance is divided bw all the cars made
So cost of manufacture has been reduced
Nr : no of robots, its cost is =manufacture and =maintenance. One os capital cost and one is operational cost. So Nr(mm), have to split bw no of robots to build and no of robots to maintain = Nr(b) + Nr(m). Assum maintenance cost is monthly 
Nc = no of cars built/ month, Nc(m)= ( Nr(m)/Nc(m) ) maintenance cost per car
Profit: Pc/Nc(m) - Nr(m)/ Nc(m) = (Pc-Nr(m))/Nc(m)
(PcUP-Nr(m)DOWN)/Nc(m)DOWN we want to maximise numerator and minimsie denominator
But theres a problem Nr(b), the cost of building it
Bpr should be looked frmo the perspective what are the obstacles for success

1st dec 2025
Every failure is a rework, this means the process will be rerun, this means this will cost u
Calculate where we are on the six sigma scale, this is the challenge
How do we judge where it is on the sigma? Like if we have 26k defects then? If 99.7%, then 0.997 * 6000 = 5982, this means if we were + or - six sigma compatible then it would be 6000 - 5982 = 18, 18 defects per million
Apka process dictates that defect would be per million or per 1/ million or anyth, depends on nature of product like if biscuit, we wouldnt tolerate so thye need vvv less defect, like 1 per million
So we have 18 defects per million
In chairs how many defects per million can u tolerate, 2-3 per 100 of chairs. But not coldrinks or biscuits
If ur yields is 97.33, u can reverse engineer and say my defect needs to b ethos??
Uve got an error rate and u ca reduce it, u go back and say kahan hai gunjaish for errors
Six sigma works when u can capture data automatically
Fmea
Max 20k opportunities for failure
Msised so much
Lets calculate defects in learning
Put cameras in class, defects would be ppl on their phone, looking bored, electric shocks, looking sleepy
And non defects, asking questions, engaging in class, listening, looking interested
Doing this thru cv
How to pick up a student when hes not learning? Define defects and opportunities? Then define tech by which you will measure it

8 dec 2025
Process mining has timestamps, data mining does not
Its imp to understand that process mining is seeing patterns in processes, its data per say
One process flow is a case id going from beginning to end
Theres one complete process flow as one unit
Then what we have is time stamps, begging and end, and activity for that case id that was executed
How many cases do we hsve in this example? 
What is a variant? 
We have 608 Cases, 
The activity doesnt change but other columns change, cus its the same variant,, it follows the same process flow
A variant is deviations from the expected root
Ideally we want to reduce no of variants, if we have 608 case ids and 608 variants, then that means u did smth wrong, why are all different
The variant that is pursued the most is the standard process, its called the happy process
The no of active cases is the no u working on, so u can say as they come in, they go out
Active cases is like we in canteen, during break a lot of rush, as class time nears, more ppl wont come but ones alr there will leave
The variants that are a single case, generally are exceptions to the rule
No of event per case ( no of activities per case)
Activities are the steps
Find a case id with 6 events and one which has 18 events
6= variant 13, case id=157, 18 events= variant 1, case id 335